So we have our workspace set up but
there's a difference between these two.
And you can kind of tell by
just looking at it, right?
One says like applied check
whereas the other one has nothing.
Well, that's because we set up
the workspace to be local, right?
This is again the one chicken before
the egg scenario where we kind of have
to initialize state before we
can actually have it track.
And that's because Terraform
doesn't know what the repo is yet.
We haven't added that to state yet, right?
We wanna do that next.
So now what we wanna do is we wanna
clone after we've created our workspace,
we wanna clone our second repository,
which is our GitHub repository.
I'm gonna say, gh pr clone for
me github, cool.
Okay, so now I have two automation
repositories a GitHub repository and
a tfe repository.
So now I'm gonna go into my
GitHub repository, right?
And we're gonna start automating again.
So in this scenario,
we're gonna start directly out
of the box with configuration.
We now know we like configuring things,
right?
And we now know that's
a convention we wanna keep.
So let's create a new
file called locals.tf.
This is a pattern that we're gonna do and
keep doing, right?
Now you guys know that we can do this,
right?
You guys are aware of that.
And I asked you last time,
what do you think the names of
the resources that we needed
to put in there were?
Right, so now we're in
the GitHub Automation Repository.
What do you think the names
are we need to put in here?
>> It gonna depend on the
>> Repo names.
>> Repo names, exactly.
Repo names because that's
what we wanna iterate over.
We wanna just make configurations for
all of our repos to start.
What I'm gonna do is I'm just
gonna be very straightforward and
I'm gonna create a variable
inside of locals called repos.
And that map now has two repos
inside of it eci-terraform-tfe and
eci-terraform-github.
Now you might be like, hey Eric,
how are you gonna do that?
They already exist.
Here's the last chicken
before the egg scenario.
These are our sources of truth, right?
But so is Terraform.
But Terraform depends on GitHub, right?
So the path I just showed you was
the path of least resistance which is
something must exist before we
can create the other thing.
So we do Terraform repo first
to create Terraform Cloud.
Sync, cool you're now in sync.
Okay, now that this is in sync go
over here and create the workspace.
Cool, okay awesome.
But this workspace has nothing
to synchronize with yet, right?
So now manually create the repository.
Okay, cool but these two aren't
synced with these two yet, right?
So what we're gonna do
is this repo here and
this repo here are gonna get
imported into this state.
And now terraform manages
our workspaces and
our repositories everything
is automated now.
Okay, so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna create a main.tf file.
Now, spoilers we're gonna be
using some more of my modules.
But I have tested these on
a personal account so we are good.
[LAUGH] So in this case what we
wanna do is we wanna copy and
paste our first module.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
give that to you so
that you guys can start typing this out.
But this is essentially
our repository module.
Now this repository module
does a few things, right?
For starters it, let's get rid of
this this doesn't need to be here.
It does the for_each like we're used to,
right?
for_each like we're used to.
We have a source which is
the GitHub repository module and
the version that we're using, right?
We then have a description.
I haven't added this to the config yet,
right?
But the reason why I said just start here
and then add your resource is because
you don't know necessarily yet
what you're gonna have over here.
You know what I mean?
It's okay to start and be like, okay,
now let me go figure out what I need and
then let me go at it, right?
And so in this case what we wanna do is it
looks like we need to add a description
for each repo, we need to add a potential
gitignore for each repo, a name for it.
var.owner, okay, interesting, something
we might be reusing more than once.
Topics for each repo and
visibility for each repo, okay?
So let's go ahead and configure it.
So the first one is gonna be for
our TFE repository.
And it's gonna look something like that.
So we're gonna say the description
Automation for Terraform Enterprise.
The gitignore_template was the one
we already set it to, right?
The eci-terraform-tfe that's
the name of the repository.
I don't know why that's actually in
there that doesn't need to be in there.
Let me just check that really quick,
yeah I might have actually done
that by accident sorry about that.
I'm trying to think if there's
a reason why I have the name there,
there shouldn't be.
Yeah, so let's do this each.key.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, we want it to be the key.
We always want the name of the repository
or the the resource name to be the key.
Now okay I know why I did this.
Let's say you're in a scenario where
your workspace doesn't match or
your resource name might not match what
you wanna actually name it, right?
So here's a common scenario.
If we go back to here and this is a bit
of a spoiler this is why I added this.
We have prod network but then we also have
prod cluster and prod service, right?
But there's another angle that
we're gonna take with this
which is environments, right?
So we're not just gonna have workspaces or
resources that are just
their normal names.
They might have other changes
to them like a dash prod or
a dash dev or something like that.
And so in this scenario because we realize
that that's gonna be something we're gonna
deal with in the future.
We're actually gonna
keep the value.name here.
And the reason for that is because
we do know that there might be
a scenario where the key for
what we're trying to make might not
match the value of the actual
name of the repository.
In Terraform Cloud,
it makes a little bit more sense, right?
Because there's never really
gonna be a disconnect.
It's always gonna be like one-to-one so
to speak.
But in this scenario, the flexibility
of passing the name gives you
a little bit more options in the future
when you wanna be more dynamic.
Which is something we're
gonna do a little later.
So let's keep the name for now, right?
But again, just note that this makes it so
we don't run over ourselves later.
Yeah.
>> About the topics,
that array can you feed that anything?
Or does that have to tightly correspond
to assigned topics on GitHub?
>> No, you can type in anything.
Yeah there
>> That's just an array local to
the declarations here in locals for
however you wanna be tracking that stuff.
>> Exactly, yeah, so for
example if I go back to my GitHub,
if I go to my org > View
organization you'll
see here that I've got like eci-service,
frontend-masters here.
But then you'll see here my most
used topics like this is all from my
organization so I can be like all
right let's look at frontend-masters.
And then I can see my stuff, I can see
if there's other people's stuff as well.
But you'll see here it's
looking in ALT-F4 by default.
So it's really your own level of how you
wanna filter around in GitHub, yeah.
>> I suppose my question then is if I
don't have topics configured in GitHub
right now, if I put stuff in,
>> There's no topics to configure they're
just like tags.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Yeah,
well you don't need to create them.
They will just be whatever
you want them to be, yeah.
Okay, cool so we've got that, right?
Now let's do the exact same thing for
GitHub.
So I'm going to copy
this config real quick.
And I'm going to paste in the GitHub one,
okay?
Yeah, okay so go ahead and get that one
in for me really quick before I close it.
>> gitignore_template is do you
want Terraform to be in our GitHub?
>> That's a predefined one.
So Terraform just name it or
just put the value as Terraform, GitHub
>> I'm just wondering do we
want the terraform gitignore_template
to be in all of our GitHub.
>> So let's think really quick,
what are we creating?
We're creating a Terraform
automation repository right?
>> Is your automation
repository these aren't code
repositories or
>> This repository is going to have
the automation that will
create the other repositories,
automation that helps automation, right?
So Terraform Cloud is what made it so
that we can create our Terraform GitHub.
And Terraform GitHub is gonna make it so
we can create all of our repositories.
There is one other thing let me yeah,
the owner right so
we said that we needed a owner, right?
So we're gonna do variables,tf and
we're going to paste in our owner
variable declaration, right?
So I'm gonna go back to main
that's what my main looks like and
that's what my variables looks like.